# Island Adventure
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/bOjoIiyPtcI
#### Description: Island Adventure is a computer game made from Java. The setting of the game is on a deserted island, and there is a wooden boat to move around. Trees, grass, sand and water are the elements that surround you as you try to escape from this island, and you desperately need to find another person, which is the objective of the game. Runner.java - the file that is run from the terminal, is used to set up the screen using JFrame and JPanel. This file instantiates the Screen object, from Screen.java - the largest and most important file. Firstly, the Screen class instantiates all the objects and draws them using the paintComponent from the parent Graphics class. The Screen class also detects key presses and animates the screen in response. The islands, trees, ships, and player are used and animated in the Screen class, and I have added comments to show what each code segment is. The Screen class sets up the dimensions of the screen, and, using the Color class, adds Color to the background of the game. I also tried out the fourth value (r, g, b, a), which was opacity, and that was pretty cool. I used ArrayLists to keep my objects in so that I could access them as a list, and not have to create individual ones. I tried to minimize the amount of hard code in these sections, and I made the locations of the trees randomized and within the radius of the islands (It took me a long time to find the right trig function in Java). Screen.java is constantly running a animation loop, which is called at the end of the Runner. This continues until the program is terminated. I also made several classes for the other objects that I wanted multiple of - the islands, ships, and trees, which are all part of the backdrop. I wanted to make the illusion that the player was moving on the screen, as I have seen it in other 2d games. The player never actually moves except when it is turning, but it always stays in the middle of the screen. Meanwhile, the background is moving in the opposite direction of the direction that the arrow keys are pointing to create the illusion of the moving player. I also chose to create circular boundaries for the islands to give it a more realistic look, even though square boundaries would have been easier. In order to make sure the player stays on (or off the island when on the boat), I took the distance between the player's next position and the center of the island to make sure it was within the radius. Overall, the hardest part was finding the center point of the background in relation to all the objects and making sure the player interacted with them properly. Overall, I am proud of my project and I like how it turned out.